I'm going to show you how to cast on
using the thumb method I'm using very
big warm very big pins just so that you
can see what I'm doing you need to start
with a length of wool as long as you
think you need for the amount of
stitches so it's a bit of guesswork but
I'm only going to cast on ten stitches
so I'll use that amount of wool you
start by making a loop like so and
that's the bit of wool but you're going
to make into your cast on stitches if
you're right-handed you take one needle
in your right hand put the loop on the
needle put the wall between your fourth
and fifth finger which is where you
anchor it wrap the wall once around your
thumb put the needle through the loop
we'll round the needle and pull it
through round your thumb through the
loop round the needle pull it through
round your thumb through the loop round
the needle and pull it through I'm going
to do ten of these
so we have enough wool left at the end
to sew in at the end now I'm going to
show you how to do plane or garter
stitch when a patent asks for a row of
plane this is what they mean the other
name for it is garter stitch so you hold
your needle in the right hand you're
using your main border wall and you're
about now to do a row of plane
stitch put the right hand needle if
you're right handed through the first
loop pointing away from you like that
put the wall around the needle put it
back through and off the needle through
the loop away from you round the needle
and off if it's actually quite hard
using big full and big pins it's much
easier if you're going a bit smaller and
most patterns do require a much smaller
pin and thinner
and that's your row plane or garter
stitch